# OneTwo

TL;DR: OneTwo is a Python library designed to simplify interactions with large
(language and multimodal) foundation models, primarily aimed at researchers
in *prompting* and *prompting strategies*.

Foundation Models are increasingly being used in complex scenarios with multiple
back-and-forth interactions between the model and some traditional code
(possibly generated by the model itself). This leads to the emergence of
programs that combine ML models with traditional code. The goal of the OneTwo
library is to enable the creation and execution of such programs.
It is designed for researchers (and developers) who want to explore how to get
the best out of foundational models in a situation where it is not necessarily
possible to change their weights (i.e. perform fine-tuning).

Some properties of OneTwo that are particularly impactful for researcher
productivity include the following:

- **Model-agnostic:** Provides a uniform API to access different models that
  can easily be swapped and compared.
- **Flexible:** Supports implementation of arbitrarily complex computation
  graphs involving combinations of sequential and parallel operations,
  including interleaving of calls to foundation models and to other tools.
- **Efficient:** Automatically optimizes request batching and other details of
  model server interactions under-the-hood for maximizing throughput, while
  allowing prompting strategies to be implemented straightforwardly, as if
  they were dealing with just single requests.
- **Reproducible:** Automatically caches requests/replies for easy stop-and-go
  or replay of experiments.

### Features
* **Uniform API**: OneTwo defines a set of primitives or so-called built-in
  functions representing the common ways to interact with foundation models.
  Since different open-source models or public APIs may have different
  capabilities and expose calls with different parameters, OneTwo attempts to
  provide a uniform way to access all of those, implementing some best-effort
  conversion to guarantee that a OneTwo program will run on any model.
* **Convenient syntax**: Different syntaxes are proposed to enable writing
  prompts or sequences of prompts conveniently and in a modular fashion.
  One can use formatted strings or jinja templates or can assemble the prompt
  as a concatenation of (possibly custom-defined) function calls.
* **Experimentation**: OneTwo offers functionality to easily run
  experiments on datasets and collect metrics, with automatic caching of the
  results so that minor modifications of the workflow can be replayed with
  minimal impact, without having to perform the same requests to the models,
  while at the same time being aware of the sampling behaviour (e.g. when
  different samples are needed for a given request).
* **Tool use**: OneTwo supports different ways of calling tools from a model,
  including running model-generated Python code involving tool calls in a
  sandbox.
* **Agents**: OneTwo provides abstractions for defining agents, i.e. functions
  that perform some complex action in a step-by-step manner, while updating some
  internal state. These agents can be combined naturally and used within
  generic optimization algorithms.
* **Execution model**: The execution model takes care of the details of
  orchestrating the calls to the models and tools. It offers the following
  functionality:
  * **Asynchronous execution**: Thanks to the use of asynchronous execution, the
    actual calls to the models and tools can be performed in parallel. However,
    the user can define a complex workflow in an intuitive and functional manner
    without having to think of the details of the execution.
  * **Batching**: Similarly, whenever the backends support multiple
    simultaneous requests, or batched requests, the OneTwo library will leverage
    this and group the requests for maximizing throughput.
  * **Smart Caching**: In addition to making it easy to replay all or part of an
    experiment, the caching provided by the library handles the case of
    multiple random samples obtained from one model, keeping track of how many
    samples have been obtained for each request, so that no result is wasted
    and actual requests are minimized while the user is tuning their workflow.


Note: The current release (v0.1.0) is an early preview. The API may evolve
significantly in future releases (see [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md)).

## Quick start

### Installation

You may want to install the package in a virtual environment, in which case you
will need to start a virtual environment with the following command:

```shell
python3 -m venv PATH_TO_DIRECTORY_FOR_VIRTUAL_ENV
# Activate it.
. PATH_TO_DIRECTORY_FOR_VIRTUAL_ENV/bin/activate
```

Once you no longer need it, this virtual environment can be deleted with the
following command:

```shell
deactivate
```

Install the package:

```shell
pip install git+https://github.com/google-deepmind/onetwo
```

To start using it, import it with:

```python
from onetwo import ot
```

### Running unit tests

In order to run the tests, first clone the repository:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/google-deepmind/onetwo
```

Then from the cloned directory you can invoke `pytest`:

```shell
pytest onetwo/core
```

However, doing `pytest onetwo` will not work as pytest collects all the test
names without keeping their directory of origin so there may be name clashes, so
you have to loop through the subdirectories.


## Tutorial and Documentation

This
[Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/google-deepmind/onetwo/blob/main/colabs/tutorial.ipynb)
is a good starting point and demonstrates most of the features available in
onetwo.

Some background on the basic concepts of the library can be found here:
[Basics](docs/basics.md).


## License

Copyright 2024 DeepMind Technologies Limited

This code is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the \"License\");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain
a copy of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed
under the License is distributed on an AS IS BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR
CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

## Disclaimer

This is not an official Google product.